Our website, Cabotato, is designed to help users pull an all-nighter in Cabot Science Library. To use our project, we have integrated flask, meaning the “flask run” command in the VScode terminal can be used to run our project so long as you have entered the “cabotato-main” directory. From here, you will have access to the “open in browser” button which will direct you to our website! Below we have described how to navigate through our entire website and all of its pages.

Register: This is where new users should all begin. On the registration page, users are prompted to put their name, username, password, and a confirmation of their password. If the username or password are taken, or if the password and confirmation don’t match, users will not be able to submit the form until they correct their issue. Once users are registered, they will be prompted to login.

Login: After users register for an account on our website, they will be prompted to log in with the information they used when they first registered for Cabotato. If they are already registered, they should start here. If the information they enter matches with their account, they will be able to log in to Cabotato and access all of its exciting features! Specifically, they now have access to the Room Book Page, Study Page, Study Leaderboard, Food Page,  and Friend Tracker. If users do not make an account, they cannot use these features.

Home: The user is directed to this page of the website once the user logs in. Visually, it features a photo of Cabot Library and a high-level overview of the usage and features of the Cabotato website. At the bottom of the page is a carousel of various photos and captions from Cabot library, which the user can click through to gain a better understanding of the history and student culture around Cabot library.

Roombook: This is Cabotato’s most complex feature, and it solves a real world issue. Currently, when Harvard students try to book rooms at Cabot Science Library, they must manually look through the availability of each room. Oftentimes, this results in users spending a lot of time going through all the rooms (it’s also hard to scroll through the rooms because anytime you click a room to see availability you are directed back to the top of the page and there is only one row shown per room). To make our users’ lives easier, we have addressed these issues. With Cabotato, users can book rooms with the ability to easily scroll through rows consisting of two Cabot rooms each. Once users book a room, they receive a confirmation message. If the room you are trying to reserve has already been taken, you will receive an error message. As for the most convenient aspect of our room booking system, if you have a particular time when you need the room, you can input the date and time for when you would like the room, and only rooms that are available during that time will show up. Now, users don’t have to wrry about sifting through rooms that are already taken for their desired study time.

Study: Studying all night can be exhausting, which is why we created a helpful study page with a Pomodoro timer. The pomodoro method is a helpful study method where you work for 25 minutes, and take a break for 5 minutes. We have created a Pomodoro timer in Cabotato for users to use to stay productive while also taking breaks. We have also implemented Spotify on this page for users to listen to music or a podcast (like the CS50 podcast) while they work.

Leaderboard: Cabotatos are strong, and often competitive, so we created a leaderboard for users to stay competitive and motivated by their friends! Specifically, users can input how long they’ve been working and how many assignments they have completed. Whoever has done the most assignments is ranked first, but users can also see how long everyone has been working for.

Food Spots: We understand that our users are tired and probably hungry. This page features a total of 10 restaurants in the vicinity of Harvard Square that users can query for, and the geographical locations of all of these restaurants is shown in the interactive map at the very bottom of the page. Before the user searches up anything in the search bar, the website exhibits all 10 of the restaurants. If the user has a specific type of food or restaurant name that they want to find in the vicinity of Cabot library, the user can type their key terms in the search bar in the middle and then click the search button. If there are any matching restaurants, the page will either display the cards of all restaurants that contain the search term in the restaurant name or food options (types of food offered). If there are no matching restaurants, then the page will clear the search and display a warning that there are “No matching restaurants found.”

Friend Tracker: At the top of this page, the user can input their study plan if they want their friends to know where they’re studying. They have three dropdown fields that need to be filled before they can submit: the study location, study session duration (how long they plan to study in that one location), and the locked-in level (how focused they plan to be). Once they’ve selected a choice in all three fields, they can then hit the “Submit your study location!” button to share their study plans on the website. The user can scroll down to the “Study Locations” section to find a list of friends that are studying in each location of Cabot. Any friends studying at the location will have their names and “locked-in levels” displayed in a table, and if there are no friends studying at the location then a message that no one is studying there will be displayed.
